# C++ Makefile Project Template

## About this Project
This is a basic makefile template designed for C++. 

### Supported Platforms 
The contents of the makefile are generalized to support compilation to target either Windows or Linux out of the box. You may need to include platform specific headers as you go, which may restrict your project to a single platform. Take some time to consider what platforms you plan to target, or if cross-compatibility is required.


For C++ projects targeting embedded ARM systems, please use a platformIO template like the [Nucleo F446RE template](https://github.com/qfsae/zenith/tree/master/templates/nucleo-f446re).

#### Considerations for Windows
This is a makefile project which requiers the `make` program, as well as the `gcc/g++ toolchain`. These executables do not come pre-packaged with Git Bash, and must be installed independently, for example using `cygwin` or `MinGW`. If you are unsure how to get `g++.exe` and `make.exe` installed and added to your PATH variable, reach out to the electrical lead for help. A tutorial to help with this process is in progress.

## How to use this Template 
To use this template, simply copy the directory `templates/makefile-c++/` into the root directory of the repository. 
* Use the `cd` command to change your active directory to the folder you just copied, and run the command `make run`. 
* If "Hello World!" prints, you are good to go. See the sections below for more information using make.

### Folder Structure
There are 5 top-level folders in this project:
* src/ - place all of your source (.cpp) files here 
* include/ - place all of your headers (.h) files here
* lib/ - place any private libraries your program depends on here. See the readme Consider using submodules if a git repository exists
* obj/ - temporary folder to store object (.o) files for the linker
* bin/ - target folder where __compiled and linked executables are placed__ 

__Note: *bin/* and *obj/* are auto-generated by the makefile.__

### Using the Makefile
This template comes with a makefile that should cover most simple use-cases. It is set up to compile your C++ code using the G++ tool. 

In the terminal (Git Bash on Windows), you can run the following `make` commands to compile the project:
* `make`: compiles all source and header files individually and links them in a single executable in *bin/*. Your code should have a single `int main()` function to serve as the entry point of the program.
* `make run`: runs `make`. If compilation success, the program is executed immediately afterwards. 
* `make clean`: cleanses the project directory of the *bin/* and *obj* folders, as well as any object files or executables inside. 

After running `make`, check the command-line output to confirm that there are no errors. If none, an executable file should be generated in `bin`. 

Feel free to expand the makefile as needed for your particular use case. If additional features can be generalized consider opening a PR to add them to this template.